Girls Related Scheme
Contact for any Query To
Vimla Nawaria
ICAS Officer 2012 Batch at :
vnawaria313@gmail.com
Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalayas (Incentives to Girls for Secondary Education):
Purpose:
To  establish an enabling environment to reduce the drop outs and to promote the enrolment  of girl child belonging to SC/ST communities in secondary schools and ensure  their retention up to the 18 years of age.residential schools for girls from  SC, ST, OBC and Minority communities. to promote the girl child’s enrolment of  14-18 years age group at secondary stage, who passes class VIII and  subsequently drops out for various socio-economic reasons. The Scheme will  cover (i) all SC/ST girls who pass class VIII and (ii) girls, who pass class  VIII examination from Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidhalayas (irrespective of  whether they belong to Scheduled Castes or Tribes) and enroll for class IX in  State/UT Government, Government-aided or local body schools. Married girls will  be excluded from the scheme. To be eligible for the benefit under the scheme  the girl should be unmarried and should be below 16 years of age. The  application will be verified particularly with reference to birth certificate  issued by the School Head based on enrollment record.
Procedure:Implementation  Partners:
State/ UT Governments, Schools controlled and managed by  State Governments, Local Bodies and Aided Private Schools and Panchayati Raj  Institutions will be the implementing partners. The amount of incentive may be  released to the State/ UT Governments for depositing, the same in favour of the  eligible girls.
Financial  Parameters:
A sum of Rs. 3000 (Rupees three thousand  only) would be deposited under term deposit/ fixed deposit in a public sector  bank or in a post office in the name of every eligible girl child. The term/  period of the deposit may be counted from the date of deposit to the date on  which the girl child attains the age of 18 years. No premature withdrawal will  be allowed.
Process  of Execution:
Every implementing school may prepare a  proposal for release of amount of incentive after proper examining the  eligibility criteria and submit it to the State Governments/ UTs through proper  channel. State/ UT Governments will send a consolidated proposal to the  Department of School Education and Literacy, Ministry of HRD, New Delhi. An  account will be opened in the name of the beneficiary in the nearest public sector  bank or in a post office by the implementing agency (State/ UT Governments or the  autonomous organizations, as the case may be) and the amount deposited in a
Fixed  Term Deposit
:. A passbook or a certificate would be given to the student,  which will also identify her as a beneficiary of the scheme.The beneficiary  will have to continue her study at least for two years in the secondary school  after her enrollment in Class IX in order to avail the benefit under the scheme.  The Principal/ Head of the school will furnish a certificate to this effect.To  be eligible to draw the matured amount a pre-condition would be for the beneficiary  to pass class X Board examination successfully.On attaining 18 years of age and  production of (i) 10th class pass certificate and (ii) a certificate from the  Principal / Head of the school that the girl beneficiary has continued her  study for at least two years after enrolment in Class IX the implementing agency  will authorize the bank to transfer the matured amount in the interest bearing.
Time  Period:
Every implementing school may complete the exercise of  identification of eligible girl child and preparation of proposal within one  month of the commencement of the academic year. The State/ UT Governments will  prepare the consolidated proposal and send to the
Department of school  Education & Literacy, Ministry of HRD, New Delhi
within three months of  the commencement of the academic year.
SABLA (Rajiv Gandhi scheme for empowerment of Adolescent Girls):
Purpose:
It will  replace The Nutrition Programme for Adolescent Girls which was launched in  2002-03 to address nutritional needs of adolescent girls, improving their  health nutrition, up gradation of home skills, life skills and vocational  skills.. It is to be implemented by the Ministry of Women and Child  Development. The funds are provided by the central government to the state  government in the form of 100% grants. It is implemented in the following  districts of  RAJASTHAN:-
Bhilwara,  Jodhpur, Banswara, Udaipur, Jhalawar, Dungarpur, Bikaner, Jaipur, Barmer,  Ganganagar.
Eligibility:
The  scheme targets girl children between the ages of 11 -18.
Procedure:
Anganwadi  centers
will be the focal point. If Anganwadi is not there then
schools/Panchayats/community  buildings etc
. will arrange it.
The Nutrition Programme for Adolescent Girls:
Purpose:
It was  launched in 2002-03 to address nutritional needs of adolescent girls, pregnant  women and lactating mothers. Under this scheme,6 kg. of food-grains were given  to under nourished adolescent girls, pregnant women and lactating mothers  according to their weight.
It is implemented in the rest districts where  SABLA is not implemented.
Procedure:
Implemented  by the Ministry of Women and Child Development
. The funds are provided by  the central government to the state government in the form of 100% grants. The  food is meant to be provided through the
Public distribution system
for  no cost to the families identified in this scheme.
Eligibility:
Girl  children between the ages of 11 -19 who are less than 35 kgs.
Kishori Shakti Yojana (KSY).
Purpose:
To provide the  required literacy and numeracy skills through the non-formal stream of  education, to stimulate a desire for more social exposure and knowledge and to  help them improve their decision making capabilities; to train and equip the  adolescent girls to improve/ upgrade home-based and vocational skills; to  promote awareness of health, hygiene, nutrition and family welfare, home  management and child care, and to take all measure as to facilitate their  marrying only after attaining the age of 18 years and if possible, even later;
Eligibility:
To improve the  nutritional and health status of girls in the age group of 11-18 years;
Procedure:
It is implemented in  the rest districts where SABLA is not implemented
. Under  this option, adolescent girl groups can be formed at Anganwadi Centres and  regular supply of IFA and deworming tablets may be ensured along with  provisions for nutritional and health education. The other option is to  emphasize life education, which may include knowledge of physical and  psychological developmental processes including the psychosexual development.
The adolescent girls may be congregated at
Anganwadi  Centres
and the education could be provided through experts, consultants,  NGOs and speicialised Government functionaires.
vocational training activities may be undertaken for adolescent  girls for their economic empowerment. At Anganwadi Centres, a group of 20-25  girls may be identified by the Supervisor (Mukhya Sevika). Of these, nomination  of 2 selected girls from each Anganwadi Centre may be sent to the Office of  District Programme Officer.
State Governments/UT Administrations may involve Panchayati  Raj institutions, NGOs. other institutions for implementation of the Scheme. This  scheme is sponsored by  Department Of Women And Child Development, Ministry  Of Human Resource Development, Government Of India.
Balika Samriddhi Yojana:
Purpose:
to  raise the status of the girl child. to increase enrolment and retention of  girls in schools, to raise the marriage age of girls and to create income  opportunities and activities. Hence now the girl child can receive:
A post birth grant amount of Rs. 500/
Eligible for annual scholarships for  education according to class.
Class
Amount of Annual Scholarship
I-III
Rs. 300/- per annum    for each class
IV
Rs. 500/- per annum
V
Rs. 600/- per annum
VI-VII
Rs. 700/- per annum    for each class
VIII
Rs. 800/- per annum
IX-X
Rs. 1000/- per    annum for each class
Part of the money given to  the girl child at birth or in scholarships can be put aside for paying the  premium on an insurance policy in the name of the girl child under the  Bhagyashri Balika Kalyan Bima Yojna. Under this scheme the girl child can  withdraw the scholarship amount and interest when she turns 18. If she marries  or dies before she is eighteen the amount incurred in interest bearing account  will be withdrawn.
Eligibility:
any girl child born between 2 December 2003 and 1 December 2004 can have    account opened for her till 1 December 2015.
Procedure:  Sukanya Samriddhi Scheme
.Under the scheme account can be opened in
post  offices or scheduled commercial banks
only by natural or legal guardians,  the child can operate it after she turns 10. Natural or legal guardian of a  girl child will be allowed to open accounts for two girl children only except  if the depositor has twin girls as second birth or if the first birth itself  results into three girl children.  The minimum investment is Rs 1,000 a  year. Further investments have to be in multiples of Rs 100. The maximum amount  one can deposit is Rs 1.5 lakh, irrespective of the number of accounts. One has  to deposit at least Rs 1,000 every year. An account where the minimum amount  has not been deposited can be revived by paying a penalty of Rs 50 and the  minimum amount for each year during which the account holder has not paid. The  scheme is offering an interest rate of 9.1% a year. Premature withdrawal of 50%  of the amount at the end of the previous financial year is allowed for the  purpose of the girl's higher education or marriage after she turns 18. If the  money is not withdrawn even after the girl is 21, it will continue to earn  interest. The account can be transferred anywhere in the country. Deposits may  be made till completion of 14 years from the date of opening of the account. The  account shall mature on completion of 21 years from the date of opening of the  account or if the girl gets maarried before that.
SCHEME OF PRE MATRIC SCHOLARSHIPS TO THE SCHEDULED CASTE STUDENTS
Purpose:
To  support parents of SC children for education of their wards
studying in  classes IX and X
so that the incidence of drop-out, especially in the  transition from the elementary to the secondary stage is minimized, and To  improve participation of SC children in classes IX and X of the pre-metric  stage.
Eligibility: 1.
Parent/Guardian's  income should not exceed Rs. 2 lakh per annum.
Should  not be getting any other Centrally-funded Pre-Matric Scholarship.
Should  be a regular, full time student studying in aGovernment School or in a School  recognized by Govt. or aCentral/State Board of Secondary Education.
Scholarship for studying in any class will be available for  only one year. If a student has to repeat a class, she / he would not  getscholarship for that class for a second (or subsequent) year.
Rates of scholarship and other grant will  be as follows:
Item
Day    Scholars
Hostellers
Scholarship    (Rs. p.m.) (for 10 months)
150
350
Books    and Ad hoc Grant (Rs. p.a.)
750
1000
Additional      Allowances for students with disabilities studying in Private un-aided      Schools
Amount
(In      Rs.)
(i)
Monthly      Reader Allowance for Blind students
160
(ii)
Monthly      Transport Allowance for students with disabilities
(as defined in the      Persons with Disabilities Act 1995), if such students do not reside in the      hostel which is within the premises of the Educational Institution.
160
(iii)
Monthly      Escort Allowance for Severely Disabled
(i.e. with 80% or higher      disability) Day Scholars/Students with low extremity disability
160
(iv)
Monthly      Helper Allowance
admissible to any employee of the hostel willing to      extend help to a severely orthopaedically handicapped student residing in      the hostel of an Educational Institution who may need the assistance of a      helper.
160
(v)
Monthly      Coaching Allowance to Mentally Retarded and Mentally ill Students
240
Procedure:
The Scheme is  Centrally Sponsored Scheme and implemented by theState Governments and Union  Territory Administrations, which will receive 100% central assistance from  Government of India for expenditure under the Scheme.scholarship will be  payable for 10 months in an academic year. The award once made will continue  subject to good conduct and regularity in attendance. It will be renewed for  Class X after the student passes Class IX. Scholarship is payable from 1st April  or from the month of admission, whichever is later, to the month in which the  examinations are completed, at the end of the academic year (including  scholarship during holidays), provided that if the scholar secures admission  after the 20th  day of a month, the amount will be paid from the month following  the month of admission.
The  Scheme will be implemented through State Governments/U.T. Administrations
.State  Govt. would prescribe a suitable application form in the local language and  place it on its websites. School authorities will get these forms filled by the  eligible students and send them to Block / District level authorities. State  Governments/UT Administrations will delegate powers to sanction scholarships  under the scheme to appropriate District / Block level authorities/ Heads of Institution,  as appropriate. Application complete in all respects, shall be submitted to the  Head of the Institution/School.
National Agricultural Insurance Scheme (NAIS)
The Government of India introduced the scheme  from Rabi 1999-2000 season to protect the farmers against losses suffered by  them due to crop failure on account of natural calamities. The scheme is  currently implemented by Agriculture Insurance Company of India (AICIL). The  scheme is available to all the farmers, loanee and non-loanee, irrespective of  size of their holding. The scheme covers all food crops (cereals, millets and  pulses) and oil seeds and Annual commercial/ horticultural crops. At present,  10% subsidy on premium is available to small & marginal farmers. NAIS is  presently being implemented in 24 States and 2 Union Territories except in  States of Punjab & Arunachal Pradesh. Nagaland has given consent to  implement the scheme and Rajasthan has decided to implement WBCIS in place of  NAIS. Since the inception of the scheme and until up to 31.03.11 about 176  million farmers have been insured, covering an area of 269 million hectares for  a sum insured value of Rs. 2,21,213 crore, against a premium of Rs. 6589 crore.  Claims to the tune of about Rs. 22190 crore have been reported so far  benefiting nearly 47.6 million farmers representing a claim ratio of 1:3.37.
Claims are automatically calculated based on  shortfall in the current season yield obtained from crop cutting experiments  conducted by State Governments under General Crops Estimation Survey (GCES) as  compared to threshold yield and settled through the rural banking network. The  Company is making efforts to bring the remaining States/ UTs into the fold of  NAIS.
Pilot Modified National Agricultural Insurance Scheme (MNAIS)
Pilot MNAIS
was launched for implementation in 50 districts during Rabi  2010-11 season. Modified NAIS has many improvements over NAIS like the  insurance unit for major crops has been lowered down to village / village  Panchayat, minimum indemnity level has been raised to 70%, threshold yield is  based on past seven years' yield excluding a maximum of two calamity years,  pre-sowing and post-harvest loss are covered. Besides these, On-account payment  of claims during the season and payment of claims for sowing failure have also  been included. The benefit of individual assessment of claims due to localized  calamities i.e. hailstorm and landslide has been extended to all the notified  areas.
The minimum number of CCEs required to be conducted at village / village  Panchayat level, for all crops except groundnut, has been reduced to four.
AIC implemented MNAIS during Rabi 2010-11 in 32 Districts across 12 States.  More than 3.45 lac farmers were covered for a sum insured of Rs. 69193 lac. The  gross premium was Rs. 45.20 crore, of which premium collected from farmers was  Rs. 2293 lac. Claims of Rs. 22.45 lac due to localized calamity i.e. hailstorm  have been paid to 3842 farmers in Uttar Pradesh while losses reported in Andhra  Pradesh are being assessed and would be paid soon. The final claims due to  yield loss, shall be paid after receipt of yield data from the State  Governments.
Assam, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Uttar  Pradesh and Mizoram States have so far issued Notification for implementation  of MNAIS during Kharif 2011 for 20 districts.
Other States expected to notify the pilot MNAIS during Kharif 2011 season are  Andhra Pradesh (3 districts), Bihar (3 districts), Tamilnadu (3 districts),  Uttarakhand (2 districts) and Haryana (1 district).
Orissa (5 districts) & Chhatisgarh (1 district) who piloted during Rabi  2010-11 have decided not to implement the pilot during Kharif 2011, mainly due  to increased load of CCEs at Village Panchayat level.
National Programme for Education of Girls at Elementary Level (NPEGEL):
NPEGEL is
implemented  in educationally backward blocks (EBB)
Eligibility:
addresses the needs of girls who are „in‟ as  well as „out‟ of school. NPEGEL also reaches out to girls who are enrolled in  school, but do not attend school regularly.
Procedure:
NPEGEL  emphasizes the responsibility of teachers to recognize vulnerable girls and pay  special attention to bring them out of their state of vulnerability and prevent  them from dropping out.
Mid-Day Meal Scheme (MDMS):
The Scheme of Inclusive Education for Disabled at Secondary Stage (IEDSS) This Scheme replaces the earlier scheme of Integrated Education for Disabled Children (IEDC) and would provide assistance for the inclusive education of the disabled children in classes IX-XII.
The aim of the Centrally Sponsored Scheme of IEDSS is to enable all students with disabilities, after completing eight years of elementary schooling, to pursue further four years of secondary schooling (classes IX to XII) in an inclusive and enabling environment.
Inclusive Education for Disabled at Secondary stage:
The Scheme of Inclusive Education for Disabled at Secondary Stage (IEDSS) This Scheme replaces the earlier scheme of Integrated Education for Disabled Children (IEDC) and would provide assistance for the inclusive education of the disabled children in classes IX-XII.
The aim of the Centrally Sponsored Scheme of IEDSS is to enable all students with disabilities, after completing eight years of elementary schooling, to pursue further four years of secondary schooling (classes IX to XII) in an inclusive and enabling environment.