Insurance
Aam Aadmi Bima Yojana(AABY)
AAM ADMI BIMA YOJANA
, a Social Security Scheme  for rural landless household was launched on
2nd October, 2007
at the hands of  the then Hon'ble Finance Minister at Shimla. The head of the family or one  earning member in the family of such a household is covered under the scheme.  The premium of Rs.
200/- per person
per annum is shared equally by the Central  Government and the State Government. The member to be covered should be aged  between
18 and 59 years.
Benefits
On natural death
Rs. 30000/-
On Death due to    accident/on permanent total disability
due to accident (loss of 2 eyes or 2 limbs)
Rs. 75000/-
On partial permanent    disability due to accident (loss of one eye or one limb)
Rs. 37500/-
A separate fund called "Aam Admi Bima  Yojana Premium Fund" has been set up by Central Govt. to pay the Govt.  contribution. Fund is maintained by LIC. A free add-on benefit in the form of  scholarship to children is also available under the Scheme.
Janashree Bima Yojana
Janashree Bima Yojana (JBY) was launched on
10th  August 2000.
The Scheme has replaced Social Security Group Insurance Scheme  (SSGIS) and Rural Group Life Insurance Scheme (RGLIS). 45 occupational groups  have been covered under this scheme
No.
Occupation
No.
Occupation
1
Beedi workers
24
Hilly area woman
2
Brick kiln workers
25
Food stuffs like    khandsari/Sugar
3
Carpenters
26
Textile
4
Cobblers
27
Manufacture of food    products
5
Fishermen
28
Manufacture of paper    products
6
Hamals
29
Manufacture of leather    products
7
Handicraft Artisans
30
Printing
8
Handloom Weavers
31
Rubber and coal    products
9
Handloom & khadi    weavers
32
Chemical products like    candle manufacture
10
Lady tailors
33
Mineral products like    earthern toys manufacture
11
Leather Tannery    workers
34
Agriculturists
12
Papad workers attached    to SEWA
35
Transport drivers    association
13
Physically handicapped    self employed persons
36
Transport karmacharis
14
Primary milk producers
37
Rural poor
15
Rickshaw pullers/Auto    Drivers
38
Construction workers
16
Safai karmacharis
39
Fire crackers workers
17
Salt growers
40
Coconut processors
18
Tenduleaf collectors
41
Aanganwadi    Workers/Helpers
19
Scheme for urban poor
42
Kotwal
20
Forest workers
43
Plantation workers
21
Sericulture
44
Woman associated with    SHG
22
Toddy tappers
45
Sheep breeders
23
Power loom workers
It provides life insurance protection to people  who are below poverty line or marginally above poverty line. Persons between  aged 18 years and 59 years and who are the members of the identified 45 occupational  groups are eligible to be covered under the Scheme
Benefits
On natural death
Rs. 30000/-
On Death/Total    permanent disability due to accident
Rs. 75000/-
On partial permanent    disability due to accident
Rs. 37500/-
The premium for the scheme is Rs. 200/- per  member, 50 % premium under the scheme is met out of Social Security Fund set up  in the year 1988-89 which is maintained by LIC. The balance 50% premium is  borne by the member and/ or Nodal Agency.
Shiksha Sahayog Yojana (SSY) as add-on Benefit
The scheme was launched on 31st December,  2001. Scholarship as a free add-on benefit is provided under both Janashree  Bima Yojana and Aam Admi Bima Yojana to maximum of two children of the  beneficiary studying between 9th to 12th standard (including ITI courses) @ Rs.  100 per month for each child payable half yearly on 1st July and 1st January,  every year. The benefit is without any additional premium.
For meeting the expenditure on Scholarship benefit under Aam Admi Bima Yojana a  separate Fund has been set up by Govt. of India called "Aam Admi Bima  Yojana Scholarship Fund. Fund is maintained by LIC of India. For Jana Shree  Bima Yojana scholarship expenditure is paid out of Social Security Fund.
Apart from above two schemes, the earlier old Social Security Schemes namely  Social Security Group Scheme, Integrated Rural Development Programme (IRDP),  Swarnjayanti Gram Swarojar Yojana(SGSY) for the existing lives continued to be  administered by LIC. These schemes are closed for the new lives from the year  2000 onwards.
Micro-Insurance Products
"Jeevan Madhur"
a simple savings related life insurance  plan for low income persons was launched in 2006. On surviving to the date of  maturity, sum assured is paid alongwith vested bonus if any. On death of the  policy holder, death benefit amount equal to the total premiums payable during  the entire term of the policy will be paid alongwith vested bonus if any.
"Jeevan Mangal"
, LIC's second Micro Insurance product,  was launched in 2009. It is a term insurance plan with return of premiums paid  on maturity, provided the policy is in force. On death during the term of the  policy, the sum assured under the basic plan is payable, provided the policy is  in force.
Varishtha Pension Bima Yojana (VPBY)
VPBY meant for senior citizens aged 55 years and above was launched on 14.7.2003. Under the scheme the pensioner gets an effective yield of 9% per annum on the investment. The difference between the effective yield of 9% paid to the pensioner and that earned by LIC is compensated as subsidy to LIC by the Government of India.
Universal Health Insurance Scheme (UHIS)
The four public sector general insurance companies have been implementing Universal Health Insurance Scheme for improving the access of health care to poor families. The scheme provides for reimbursement of medical expenses upto Rs.30,000/- towards hospitalization floated amongst the entire family, death cover due to an accident @ Rs.25,000/- to the earning head of the family and compensation due to loss of earning of the earning member @ Rs.50/- per day upto maximum of 15 days. The Universal Health Insurance Scheme (UHIS) has been redesigned targeting only the BPL families. The premium subsidy has been enhanced from Rs.100 to Rs.200 for an individual, Rs.300 for a family of five and Rs.400 for a family of seven, without any reduction in benefits.
National Agricultural Insurance Scheme (NAIS)
The Government of India introduced the scheme  from Rabi 1999-2000 season to protect the farmers against losses suffered by  them due to crop failure on account of natural calamities. The scheme is  currently implemented by Agriculture Insurance Company of India (AICIL). The  scheme is available to all the farmers, loanee and non-loanee, irrespective of  size of their holding. The scheme covers all food crops (cereals, millets and  pulses) and oil seeds and Annual commercial/ horticultural crops. At present,  10% subsidy on premium is available to small & marginal farmers. NAIS is  presently being implemented in 24 States and 2 Union Territories except in  States of Punjab & Arunachal Pradesh. Nagaland has given consent to  implement the scheme and Rajasthan has decided to implement WBCIS in place of  NAIS. Since the inception of the scheme and until up to 31.03.11 about 176  million farmers have been insured, covering an area of 269 million hectares for  a sum insured value of Rs. 2,21,213 crore, against a premium of Rs. 6589 crore.  Claims to the tune of about Rs. 22190 crore have been reported so far  benefiting nearly 47.6 million farmers representing a claim ratio of 1:3.37.
Claims are automatically calculated based on  shortfall in the current season yield obtained from crop cutting experiments  conducted by State Governments under General Crops Estimation Survey (GCES) as  compared to threshold yield and settled through the rural banking network. The  Company is making efforts to bring the remaining States/ UTs into the fold of  NAIS.
Pilot Modified National Agricultural Insurance Scheme (MNAIS)
Pilot MNAIS
was launched for implementation in 50 districts during Rabi  2010-11 season. Modified NAIS has many improvements over NAIS like the  insurance unit for major crops has been lowered down to village / village  Panchayat, minimum indemnity level has been raised to 70%, threshold yield is  based on past seven years' yield excluding a maximum of two calamity years,  pre-sowing and post-harvest loss are covered. Besides these, On-account payment  of claims during the season and payment of claims for sowing failure have also  been included. The benefit of individual assessment of claims due to localized  calamities i.e. hailstorm and landslide has been extended to all the notified  areas.
The minimum number of CCEs required to be conducted at village / village  Panchayat level, for all crops except groundnut, has been reduced to four.
AIC implemented MNAIS during Rabi 2010-11 in 32 Districts across 12 States.  More than 3.45 lac farmers were covered for a sum insured of Rs. 69193 lac. The  gross premium was Rs. 45.20 crore, of which premium collected from farmers was  Rs. 2293 lac. Claims of Rs. 22.45 lac due to localized calamity i.e. hailstorm  have been paid to 3842 farmers in Uttar Pradesh while losses reported in Andhra  Pradesh are being assessed and would be paid soon. The final claims due to  yield loss, shall be paid after receipt of yield data from the State  Governments.
Assam, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Uttar  Pradesh and Mizoram States have so far issued Notification for implementation  of MNAIS during Kharif 2011 for 20 districts.
Other States expected to notify the pilot MNAIS during Kharif 2011 season are  Andhra Pradesh (3 districts), Bihar (3 districts), Tamilnadu (3 districts),  Uttarakhand (2 districts) and Haryana (1 district).
Orissa (5 districts) & Chhatisgarh (1 district) who piloted during Rabi  2010-11 have decided not to implement the pilot during Kharif 2011, mainly due  to increased load of CCEs at Village Panchayat level.
Pilot Weather based Crop Insurance Scheme (WBCIS)
Weather  Based Crop Insurance Scheme (WBCIS) aims to mitigate the hardship of the  insured farmers against the likelihood of loss on account of anticipated crop  loss resulting from incidence of adverse conditions of weather parameters like  rainfall, temperature, frost, humidity etc.
While crop  insurance specifically indemnifies the cultivator against shortfall in crop  yield, WBCIS is built upon the fact that weather conditions affect crop  production even when a cultivator has taken all the care to ensure good  harvest. Historical correlation studies of crop yield with weather parameters  helps in developing weather thresholds (triggers) beyond which crop starts  getting affected adversely. Payout structures are developed to compensate  cultivators to the extent of losses deemed to have been suffered by them using  the weather triggers. In other words, WBCIS uses weather parameters as 'proxy'  for crop yield in compensating the cultivators for deemed crop losses. Pursuant  to the budget proposals, AICIL introduced a Pilot Weather Based Crop Insurance  Scheme (WBCIS) in Karnataka during Kharif 2007 season covering 70 Hoblis in  respect of eight rain-fed crops.
AICIL  implemented the pilot scheme on Weather Based Crop Insurance Scheme (WBCIS)  during 2007-08 in 5 States spread over 190 Tehsils / blocks of 30 districts and  covered about 6.71 lakh farmers growing in about 10.35 lakh hectares of crops.
During the  2008-09 year, the scheme was implemented in 14 states, over six lakh farmers'  crops grown on over 10 lakh hectares were insured for a sum insured of Rs. 1757  crore.
During the  2009-10 year, the Scheme was implemented in 14 States spread over 672 Tehsils /  blocks of 103 districts for the major crops during Kharif and 665 Tehsils /  Blocks of 98 districts during Rabi crop season and covered more than 20 lakh  farmers, grown crops on approx. 27 lakh hectares for a sum insured of Rs. 3965  crore.
During the  year 2010-11, the Scheme was implemented in 17 States namely Andhra Pradesh,  Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, Karnataka,  Kerala, Orissa, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Uttrakhand,  Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal spread over 1010 Tehsils / blocks of 118  districts for the major crops during Kharif and 911 Tehsils / Blocks of 115  districts during Rabi crop season and covered more than 67 lakh farmers, grown  crops on over 95 lakh hectares for a sum insured of Rs. 9636 crore.
The premium  generated by AIC during 2010-11 was Rs. 882 crore and the claim ratio stands at  53%. AIC is implementing WBCIS for over 35 crops, including perennial  horticultural crops like Apple, Mango, Grapes, Cashew Nut, Pepper etc.
Atal Pension Yojana
WHAT IT OFFERS: Pension between Rs 1,000 and Rs  5,000 a month.
WHAT IT COSTS: For a monthly pension of Rs  1,000, a 40-year-old subscriber will have to invest Rs 291 per month for 20  years, while an 18-year-old will have to contribute Rs 42 per month for 40  years.
WHO IS ELIGIBLE: All individuals between 18 and  40, who will have to contribute till they turn 60.
WHO SHOULD OPT FOR IT: This is an investment you  need to make on behalf of your domestic staff who may not have anyone to look  after them once they stop working.
2) Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana
WHAT IT OFFERS: Accidental death and disability  cover of Rs 2 lakh.
WHAT IT COSTS: Premium is Rs 12 per year.
WHO IS ELIGIBLE: Anybody who has a savings  account in the banks that offer this scheme.
WHO SHOULD OPT FOR IT: Although it is for  everybody, this scheme especially suits drivers, security guards, newspaper  vendors, vegetable vendors and others who are exposed to the risk of accidental  death or disability.
3) Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima  Yojana
WHAT IT OFFERS: A pure protection term insurance  cover which pays Rs 2 lakh to dependents in the event of the policyholder's  death.
WHAT IT COSTS: Premium is Rs 330 a year.
WHO IS ELIGIBLE: Anybody in the age band of  18-70 years who has a savings account in a bank that offers this scheme.
WHO SHOULD OPT FOR IT: This is a must for any  member of your staff who is the sole breadwinner in his or her family.
4) Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana
WHAT IT OFFERS: A savings account with no  minimum balance. The Rupay ATM-cum-debit card comes with in-built accident and  life covers of Rs 1 lakh and Rs 30,000 respectively.
WHAT IT COSTS: Nil
WHO IS ELIGIBLE: Anyone belonging to the  economically weaker sections of society. As all future welfare and subsidy  schemes are likely to be linked to it, it is a must for your staff.
WHO SHOULD OPT FOR IT: All those working in the  unorganised sector. You can transfer salaries directly into the accounts of  your domestic staff to inculcate a banking habit in them.
5) Post office time deposits and bank  FDs
WHAT IT OFFERS: Time deposits with tenures of  one to four years yield 8.4%, while five-year deposits will earn 8.5%. Bank  fixed deposits in the name of your employees' senior citizen parents will earn  9-9.25%.
WHAT IT COSTS: The minimum investment for post  office time deposits is Rs 200 and there is no cap.
WHO IS ELIGIBLE: Anyone with a bank account or  Aadhar card.
WHO SHOULD OPT FOR IT: These investments will  help meshorter term requirements of your staff and other unorganised workers  like housing loan down payment, coaching class fees and so on.
6) Kisan Vikas Patra
WHAT IT OFFERS: A secure interest rate of 8.7%  and the promise to double the investment in 100 months.
WHAT IT COSTS: The minimum investment is Rs  1,000. No maximum limit.
WHO IS ELIGIBLE: All
WHO SHOULD OPT FOR IT: All domestic workers,  vendors and neighbourhood workers to fund their medium term requirements.
7) Sukanya Samriddhi Scheme
WHAT IT OFFERS: Guaranteed annual returns of  9.2%.
WHAT IT COSTS: Minimum contribution is Rs 1,000  a year and the maximum is Rs 1.5 lakh.
WHO IS ELIGIBLE: Girl child below the age of 10.
WHO SHOULD OPT FOR IT: Most domestic workers  tend to take their daughters out of school to help with household chores or to  make way for their brothers, whose education is considered more important. This  serves as an incentive to save for a daughter's education and marriage.
8) Health insurance
WHAT IT OFFERS: Cover for expenses incurred  during hospitalisation due to illness or surgery.
WHAT IT COSTS: Rs 700-800 a year for a cover of  Rs 50,000 for indivuduals aged between 18 and 40 years.
WHO IS ELIGIBLE: All
WHO SHOULD OPT FOR IT: Hospitalisation can wipe  out the entire savings of those already at a financial disadvantage. Though not  offered by the government, affordable policies are available from state-owned  non-life insurers like New India Assurance and Oriental Insurance.
The ET has further calculated how much these  might cost.
HOW IT STACKS UP
Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojan = NIL + Pradhan  Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana = Rs 330 + Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana  = Rs 12 + Atal Pension Yojana = Rs 3,492* + Health Insurance = Rs 800* +  Sukanya Samriddhi Scheme = Rs 1,000# + Kisan Vikas Patra = Rs 1,000# + Post  Office Time Deposits = Rs 200#
All this adds up to = Rs 6,834 (The  total amount you need to spend on staff welfare measures in a year)
*Assuming your employee is 40 years old and  monthly pension chosen is Rs 1,000 in case of APY. #If minimum requirement is  invested
National Health Insurance Schemes
Rashtiya Swasthiya Bima Yojana (RSBY)
RSBY (  Rashtriya Swasthiya Bima Yojana)  has been launched by Ministry of Labour  and Employment, Government of India to provide health insurance coverage for  Below Poverty Line (BPL) families. The objective of RSBY is to provide  protection to BPL households from financial liabilities arising out of health  shocks that involve hospitalization. Beneficiaries under RSBY are entitled to  hospitalization coverage up to Rs. 30,000/- for most of the diseases that  require hospitalization. Government has even fixed the package rates for the  hospitals for a large number of interventions. Pre-existing conditions are  covered from day one and there is no age limit. Coverage extends to five  members of the family which includes the head of household, spouse and up to  three dependents. Beneficiaries need to pay only Rs. 30/- as registration fee  while Central and State Government pays the premium to the insurer selected by  the State Government on the basis of a competitive bidding.
Unique  Features of RSBY
The RSBY  scheme is not the first attempt to provide health insurance to low income  workers by the Government in India. The RSBY scheme, however, differs from  these schemes in several important ways.
Empowering the beneficiary–
RSBY provides the       participating BPL household with freedom of choice between public and       private hospitals and makes him a potential client worth attracting on       account of the significant revenues that hospitals stand to earn through       the scheme.
Business Model for all Stakeholders–
The scheme has been designed       as a business model for a social sector scheme with incentives built for       each stakeholder. This business model design is conducive both in terms of       expansion of the scheme as well as for its long run sustainability
Insurers–
The insurer is paid premium       for each household enrolled for RSBY. Therefore, the insurer has the       motivation to enroll as many households as possible from the BPL list.       This will result in better coverage of targeted beneficiaries.
Hospitals–
A hospital has the incentive       to provide treatment to large number of beneficiaries as it is paid per       beneficiary treated. Even public hospitals have the incentive to treat       beneficiaries under RSBY as the money from the insurer will flow directly       to the concerned public hospital which they can use for their own       purposes. Insurers, in contrast, will monitor participating hospitals in       order to prevent unnecessary procedures or fraud resulting in excessive       claims.
Intermediaries–
The inclusion of       intermediaries such as NGOs and MFIs which have a greater stake in       assisting BPL households. The intermediaries will be paid for the services       they render in reaching out to the beneficiaries.
Government–
By paying only a maximum sum       up to Rs. 750/- per family per year, the Government is able to provide       access to quality health care to the below poverty line population. It       will also lead to a healthy competition between public and private       providers which in turn will improve the functioning of the public health       care provider
Information Technology (IT) Intensive –
For the first time IT       applications are being used for social sector scheme on such a large       scale. Every beneficiary family is issued a biometric enabled smart card       containing their fingerprints and photographs. All the hospitals       empanelled under RSBY are IT enabled and connected to the server at the       district level. This will ensure a smooth data flow regarding service       utilization periodically.
Safe and foolproof–
The use of biometric enabled       smart card and a key management system makes this scheme safe and       foolproof. The key management system of RSBY ensures that the card reaches       the correct beneficiary and there remains accountability in terms of       issuance of the smart card and its usage. The biometric enabled smart card       ensures that only the real beneficiary can use the smart card.
Portability–
The key feature of RSBY is       that a beneficiary who has been enrolled in a particular district will be       able to use his/ her smart card in any RSBY empanelled hospital across       India. This makes the scheme truly unique and beneficial to the poor       families that migrate from one place to the other. Cards can also be split       for migrant workers to carry a share of the coverage with them separately.
Cash less and Paperless transactions–
A beneficiary of RSBY gets       cashless benefit in any of the empanelled hospitals. He/ she only needs to       carry his/ her smart card and provide verification through his/ her finger       print. For participating providers it is a paperless scheme as they do not       need to send all the papers related to treatment to the insurer. They send       online claims to the insurer and get paid electronically.
Read more
...
Employment State Insurance Scheme (ESIS)
Employees’  State Insurance Scheme of India, is a multidimensional social security system  tailored to provide socio-economic protection to worker population and their  dependants covered under the scheme. Besides full medical care for self and  dependants, that is admissible from day one of insurable employment, the  insured persons are also entitled to a variety of cash benefits in times of  physical distress due to sickness, temporary or permanent disablement etc.  resulting in loss of earning capacity, the confinement in respect of insured  women, dependants of insured persons who die in industrial accidents or because  of employment injury or occupational hazard are entitled to a monthly pension  called the dependants benefit.
Coverage
Applicability
The Act is applicable to       non-seasonal factories employing 10 or more persons.
The Scheme has been extended to       shops, hotels, restaurants, cinemas including preview theatres, road-motor       transport undertakings and newspaper establishments employing 20* or more       persons.
The Scheme has been extended to       Private Medical and Educational institutions employing 20 or more persons       in certain States/UTs.
*Note:
14 State Govts. / UTs have reduced the  threshold limit for coverage of shops and ther establishments from 20 to 10 or  more persons. Remaining State Governments/UTs are in the process of reducing  the same. The existing wage limit for coverage under the Act is Rs. 15,000/-  per month ( w.e.f. 01/05/2010)
Areas  covered
The ESI  Scheme is being implemented area-wise by stages. The Scheme has already been  implemented in different areas in the following States/Union Territories of  Indian Union.
States :- All  the States except Manipur, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram.
Union  territories :- Delhi and Chandigarh
Read more
...
Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS)
The “Central  Government Health Scheme” (CGHS) provides comprehensive health care facilities  for the Central Govt. employees and pensioners and their dependents residing in  CGHS covered cities. Started in New Delhi in 1954, Central Govt. Health Scheme  is now  in operation in Allahabad, Ahemdabad ,Bangalore ,Bhubhaneshwar  ,Bhopal ,Chandigarh , Chennai ,Delhi , Dehradun ,Guwahati ,Hyderabad, Jaipur ,  Jabalpur , Kanpur , Kolkatta , Lucknow , Meerut , Mumbai , Nagpur , Patna ,  Pune , Ranchi , Shillong , Trivandrum and Jammu. The Central Govt. Health  Scheme provides  comprehensive healthcare to the CGHS Beneficiaries in  India.  The medical facilities are provided through Wellness Centres  (previously  referred to as  CGHS Dispensaries) /polyclinics  under  Allopathic,
Ayurveda
,
Yoga
,
Unani
,
Sidha
and
Homeopathic
systems of medicines.
The main  components of the Scheme are:
The dispensary services including       domiciliary care
F. W. & M.C.H. Services
Specialists consultation facilities       both at dispensary, polyclinic and hospital
level including X-Ray, ECG and       Laboratory Examinations.
Hospitalization
Organization for the purchase,       storage, distribution and supply of medicines and other requirements
Health Education to beneficiaries
Read more
...
Aam Aadmi Bima Yojana(AABY)
Aam admi bima yojana, a Social Security Scheme for rural landless household was launched on 2nd October, 2007. The head of the family or one earning member in the family of such a household is covered under the scheme. The premium of Rs.200/- per person per annum is shared equally by the Central Government and the State Government. The member to be covered should be aged between 18 and 59 years.
On natural death
Rs 30,000
On death due to accident / on permanent disability due to accident ( loss of 2 eyes or 2 limbs )
Rs 75,000
On partial permanent disability due to accident( loss of one eye or one limb )
Rs 37,500
Benefits
A separate fund called "Aam Admi Bima Yojana Premium Fund" has been set up by Central Govt. to pay the Govt. contribution. Fund is maintained by LIC. A free add-on benefit in the form of scholarship to children is also available under the Scheme.
Read more
...
Janashree Bima Yojana
Janashree Bima  Yojana (JBY) was launched on 10th August 2000. The Scheme replaced Social  Security Group Insurance Scheme (SSGIS) and Rural Group Life Insurance Scheme  (RGLIS). 45 occupational groups have been covered under this scheme
It provides life  insurance protection to people who are below poverty line or marginally above  poverty line. Persons between aged 18 years and 59 years and who are the  members of the identified 45 occupational groups are eligible to be covered  under the Scheme
Note:  Aam Admi Bima Yojana and Janashree Bima Yojana have been merged into one  scheme. It is renamed as “Aam Admi Bima Yojana” , effective from 01.01.2013.
Reference:
www.licindia.in
Universal Health Insurance Scheme (UHIS)
The four public  sector general insurance companies have been implementing Universal Health  Insurance Scheme for improving the access of health care to poor families. The  scheme provides for reimbursement of medical expenses upto Rs.30,000/- towards  hospitalization floated amongst the entire family, death cover due to an  accident @ Rs.25,000/- to the earning head of the family and compensation due  to loss of earning of the earning member @ Rs.50/- per day upto maximum of 15  days. The Universal Health Insurance Scheme (UHIS) has been redesigned  targeting only the BPL families. The premium subsidy has been enhanced from Rs.100  to Rs.200 for an individual, Rs.300 for a family of five and Rs.400 for a  family of seven, without any reduction in benefits.
Read more
...