Objectives of The Trust
EDUCATION :
Diffusion  of useful knowledge, skill training and promoting self entrepreneurships among  weaker and deprived section of the society.
To institute studentships, scholarships, stipends,  medals, prizes, etc. to help and encourage deserving students, scholars and  teachers for pursuing their education and Providing for grants, scholarships, fellowships and other forms  of financial assistance to the deserving students, vocational training, skill  development, etc.
To establish, construct, maintain, run, develop,  improve, extend grant donate for and to aid in the construction, establishment,  maintenance, improvement or extension of reading rooms, libraries, schools,  colleges, polytechnics and other educational institutions including vocational  training centers and hostels for students pursuing their studies and to establish, run, support and grant aid  or other financial assistance to schools, colleges, libraries, reading rooms,  universities, laboratories, research and other institutions of the like nature  in India.
To organize, conduct and assist in the organizing and  conduct of lectures, seminars and symposium on arts, science, commerce and  spread of literacy and adult education and other subjects of general academic  interest.
Construction  and running of schools, colleges, education institutions for weaker and  deprived sections of the society.
Granting  of financial assistance to any educational institution for granting  scholarships, prizes, medals, awards for excellence in studies, sports and  scientific research, distribution of books and note books for deserving  students.
To  run/operate/arrange/assist/establish/construct and maintain centers of adult  education, skill training, vocational education, technical training, and low  cost education, formal & non-formal education.
To  provide career guidance with help of experts
To  promote free/subsidized coaching
To do all that is necessary and incidental, for the  purpose of achieving the objects in (i) to (x) above.
MEDICAL  RELIEF:
To run/organize/promote different health programmes to raise the health  status and awareness.
To establish, maintain, run, develop, improve, extend,  grant, donate for and to aid in the establishment, maintenance, running  development, improvement and extension of hospitals, clinics, dispensaries,  medical laboratories, research units and similar institutions affording  treatment, cure, rest, recuperations and other medical relief to persons  suffering from any disease/elements.
To promote traditional therapies like Yoga, Naturopathy, Meditation,  Acupressure, Acupuncture, Massage Therapy, Ayurveda, Homeopathy, Reiki  etc.
To promote and coordinating for free vaccination to kids and adult, and  heath literacy.
To establish, maintain develop or donate for the  establishment, maintenance and development of blood banks, medicine banks/shops  and medical labs for different tests.
To organize, run and assist in the organizing and  running of free medical camps.
To reimburse medical and other expense incurred for the  treatment at recognized hospitals
To do all that is necessary and incidental, for the  purpose of achieving the objects in (i) to (vii) above.
GENERAL  RELIEF
To provide relief by giving cash grants or assistance  in kind, in cases of atrocities or natural calamities, like earth quakes,  floods, famines, etc.
To assist in providing legal help and social justice
To help in protection of human right violations or  fundamental rights violations
To assist, encourage and promote the dowry free  marriages
To assist or promote or encourage marriages amongst  various castes/subcastes to eradicate casteism and improve harmony in the society
To assist or provide or coordinate for affordable  housing and other infrastructural facilities in constructing low cost houses, Hostels,  Dharamshala, Community Hall, Marriage Hall, Rest Houses, Recreation center,  Clubs, Sports facilities, etc.
To spread, help, facilitate and/or coordinate for  government welfare schemes in formulation and implementation and any other  incentives given by the government.
To train workers and  especially women for the various employment opportunities
To establish and run various  vocational/skill training centers to help youth to develop their self  employment skills
To assist the people in need  to undertake improved animal husbandry, cottage and small scale industries and  cooperative ventures to enhance their economic condition and to effect  sustainable development
To establish and run various  types of industries, stone metal crusher unit etc., for the creation of  employment generation of women & rural peoples.
To help unemployed persons by making availability of Technical  training & other economic help
To award for promting those who are already working for the  upliftment of Weaker and Deprived Sections of the society
To empower the weaker and deprived through various means of  government schemes and other measures as decided by the Board of Trust from  time to time.
PRESERVATION  OF ENVIRONMENT & MONUMENTS
To preserve and protect the environment by tree  plantation, cleaning, watering, etc.
Spreading awareness about preservation of environment
To preserve monuments