Terms And Conditions
For Event Activities
1. Your participation in any and all activities, facilities, programs, and services provided by Ekta Navnirman Trust is at your own risk and you assume full responsibility for your choice to use and/or apply the information or instruction you receive and assume any and all risk of injury, illness, damage, loss, or expense that might result.
2. It is understood that you will comply with any recommendations or restrictions your physician may have made pertaining to your participation in physical activities.
Donation
1. Introduction
By accessing and using this website to make donations or payments, you agree to the following Terms & Conditions. These terms govern your use of our online donation/payment services.
2. Legal Status
Ekta Navnirman Trust is a registered NGO under applicable laws of India.
Donations made to Ekta Navnirman Trust may be eligible for tax benefits under Section 80G of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (if applicable).
3. Payment Terms
Donations and payments can be made via credit/debit cards, UPI, net banking, or other approved payment gateways.
All transactions will be processed in Indian Rupees (INR).
Ekta Navnirman Trust is not responsible for any transaction failures due to technical issues at the bank, payment gateway, or donor’s end.
4. Refund & Cancellation Policy
Donations made are non-refundable.
In case of duplicate transactions or errors, please contact us within 7 working days at
ektanavnirmantrust@gmail.com.
.
Refunds, if applicable, will be processed at the sole discretion of Ekta Navnirman Trust.
5. Use of Funds
All donations received will be utilized for charitable purposes only.
Donors will be provided with receipts acknowledging their contributions.
6. Privacy & Data Protection
Donor information (name, contact details, payment data) will be kept confidential and used only for record-keeping and statutory compliance.
We do not share donor information with third parties, except as required by law.
For more details, please refer to our Privacy Policy.
7. Donor Rights
Donations are voluntary and do not entitle donors to any material, financial, or contractual benefits.
Donors may request information on how funds are being utilized by contacting
ektanavnirmantrust@gmail.com.
.
8. Limitation of Liability
Ekta Navnirman Trust shall not be liable for any indirect, incidental, or consequential damages arising from the use of this website or payment services.
Donors are responsible for ensuring the accuracy of the information provided during transactions.
9. Changes to Terms
Ekta Navnirman Trust reserves the right to update or modify these Terms & Conditions at any time without prior notice.
Continued use of the website after changes implies acceptance of the revised terms.
Short Message Service (SMS)
1. When you opt-in to the Short Message Service (SMS) using a short code by texting REG, we will send you an SMS text message to confirm your RIP
Faculty Registration. By sending a text message for participation in the text messaging program or by using our text program at any time, you are
agreeing to the Terms and Conditions set forth. These Terms and Conditions may change from time to time.
2. You can cancel and opt-out of the SMS service at any time. Just text "STOP" to 47734 to stop. We will send you an SMS message to confirm that
you have been unsubscribed. After this, you will no longer receive SMS messages from us. If you want to join again, just text "REG" to short code
to register as you did the first time. We will start sending SMS messages to you again.
3. If, at any time, you forget what keywords are supported, just text "HELP"
to 47734 for help. We will respond with several keywords supported by our service: REG, NICK, OUT, STAT, PAUSE, RESUME, STOP, STOP ALL
4. We are able to deliver messages to the following major mobile phone carriers and most minor carriers and deliver only on Indians mobile numbers.
5. As always, Message & data rates may apply. One message per user request. If you have any questions about your text plan or data plan, it is best to
contact your wireless provider. For general questions about the services provided by the short code, you can send an email to
ektanavnirmantrust@gmail.com.
6. If you have any questions regarding privacy, please read our privacy policy:
http://ektatrust.org.in
User Conduct
You agree not to send or otherwise make available content that is unlawful, harmful, threatening, abusive, harassing, tortious, defamatory, vulgar, obscene,
libelous, invasive of another's privacy, or contains hate speech.
Rights
By sending text messages, you grant Ekta Navnirman Trust the perpetual, irrevocable, and fully sub licensable to use, distribute, reproduce, modify, adapt, publish,
translate, publicly perform, and publicly display any and all text message content provided by you to Ekta Navnirman Trust (in whole or in part) and to incorporate
such content into other works in any format now known or later developed.
I. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTIES
you expressly understand and agree that your participation in the text program is at your sole risk. The text program is provided on an "as is" and "as available"
basis. Ekta Navnirman Trust and its officers, agents, employees, partners, contractors, consultants, licensors, and suppliers expressly disclaim all warranties of any
kind, whether express or implied, including, but not limited to the implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose and non- infringement.
Ekta Navnirman Trust and its officers, agents, employees, partners, contractors, consultants, licensors, and suppliers make no warranty that (a) the text program will
meet your requirements; (b) the text program will be uninterrrupted, timely, secure, or error-free; or (c) the results that may be obtained from the use of the
text program will be accurate or reliable.
II. LIMITATION ON LIABILITY
you expressly understand and agree that Ekta Navnirman Trust and its officers, agents, employees, partners, contractors, consultants, licensors, and suppliers shall
not be liable to you for any direct, indirect, incidental, special, consequential or exemplary damages, including, but not limited to, damages for loss of profits,
goodwill, use, data or other intangible losses or any other matter relating to the text program.
Termination
Ekta Navnirman Trust reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to cancel or suspend any or all of its Text Program, in whole or in part, for any reason, with or
without notice to you.
Privacy Policy
At Ekta Navnirman Trust we respect your privacy. You may visit
http://ektatrust.org.in
without providing any personal information to us. Unless you specifically request
that we do so, we will never release your personal information to third parties for marketing purposes. We will, however, disclose certain information when it is
required by law.
Web Site Administration
When you visit our web site, some information may be collected automatically by the software that operates our website (e.g. the site from which you linked, your
Internet Service Provider, the time and date of your visit). Our servers do not track, collect, or distribute personal information about visitors to our web site.
This information is used to compile aggregate statistics about the total number of daily visitors to our site, the pages most frequently visited, how long people
stay at each page, etc. None of the information that we report allows for the personal identification of individuals.
Security
We use firewalls and additional measures to ensure the security of your personal information against loss, theft and unauthorized access.
Cookies
When you visit our website we use cookies. Cookies are small pieces of data, which are stored on your computer to allow your web browser to remember something about
our web site. However, no information that makes a user personally identifiable is retained in any cookie. Using cookies allows us to provide additional features
and functionality to our users.
Accuracy of Your Information / Opting Out
If you wish to have any of your personal information amended or removed from our computer systems, please contact us at
ektanavnirmantrust@gmail.com.
Links
Our website may contain links to other web sites; however, we cannot be responsible for the privacy practices and policies of third-party websites.